Verb Congugation
    er verbs
        e,es,e,ons,ez,ent
    cer
        nous
            cer-çons
            eg: prononçons, annonçons, avançons
        OTHERS
            cer - c + ending
    ger
        nous
            ger - eons
            eg: mangeons
        OTHERS
            ger - g + ending
    -e + consonant + -er,
        nous, vous
            e + consonant + ending
        OTHERS
            è + consonant + ending
    -é + consonant + -er,
        nous, vous
            é + consonant + ending
        OTHERS
            è + consonant + ending            
    -e + l + -er,
        nous, vous
            e + l + ending
        OTHERS
            e + ll + ending    

    -ir verbs
        is,is,it,issons,issez,issent
        irregular
    -re verbs
        s,s, , ons,ez,ent
    
        
        
Tense
    Present tense
        General Statements
        Close future
        habitual action
        To describe a past action closely connected to the present
        To express a historical fact
        To describe past events more dramatically
        To express an action in the process, être en train de + the infinitive form of the verb is used
        DEPUIS
            The present tense is used to express an action that began in the past and continues in the present.
            Note that in English, the past tense is used.
            There are different ways to formulate the questions, using either depuis, il y a... que, cela (ça) fait... que
            
    Immediate Future Tense 
        aller+verb
        Aller is also used to form the immediate future. So, to talk about what you are "going to do",use
        aller in the present indicative followed immediately by a verb in the infinitive
        
    Immediate Past Tense
        venir + de +verb
        venir (to come) in the present tense +  de, combined with a verb in the infinitive
        expresses an action that has just taken place
        
    Passé Composé (Compound Past or Past Perfect)
        avoir or être,+ a past participle
        
        The past participle is formed by adding an ending to the verb stem. Regular past
        participles take the following endings:
            -er verbs take -é: parler (to speak)  parlé (spoken)
            -ir verbs take -i: choisir (to choose)  choisi (chosen)
            -re verbs take -u: entendre (to hear)  entendu (heard)
            
        Note that the passé composé can be translated into English in different ways.
        Its English equivalent depends on the context.
            She made a decision.
            Elle a pris une décision.  She has made a decision.
            She did make a decision.
        
        In the negative form, ne (n’) is placed in front of avoir or être, and pas after avoir or être.
        When avoir is used with the passé composé, with a few exceptions, the past participle does
        not agree in gender and number with the subject of the verb.
        In the passé composé of verbs conjugated with avoir, the past participle agrees with the
        direct object of the verb, but only in sentences where the direct object noun or pronoun precedes
        the verb. For example:
            Il a pris la bonne décision. He made the right decision.
            Il l’a prise. He made it.
            Elle a compris ses erreurs. She understood her mistakes.
            Elle les a comprises. She understood them
            
        Etre-  intransitive verbs of movement (aller, venir, monter…). In addition, all pronominal (reflexive) verbs are conjugated with être in the passé composé.
        The past participle of verbs conjugated with être agrees in gender and number with the subject.
            Il est arrivé en retard. He arrived late.
            Elle est arrivée en retard. She arrived late.
            Ils sont nés en Belgique. They (m.) were born in Belgium.
            Elles sont nées en Belgique. They (f.) were born in Belgium.
            
            mourir to die
            naître to be born
            
            aller to go
            venir to come, to arrive
            
            monter to go up, to climb
            descendre to go down

            arriver to arrive
            entrer to enter

            rester to stay
            
            partir to leave
            sortir to go out
            
            rentrer to return
            retourner to return, to go back
            revenir to return

            devenir to become
            tomber to fall
            
        Pronominal verbs in the passé composé
            All pronominal verbs are conjugated with être. 
            The reflexive pronouns precede the auxiliary verb (être). 
            In most cases, the past participle agrees in gender and number with the subject of the pronominal verb
            In the negative, the negation is placed around the auxiliary verb être.
            In the interrogative form, the reflexive pronoun is placed before être.
            Note that the past participle does not agree with the subject of the pronominal verb when
            the verb is followed by a direct object or by another verb.
            When reciprocal verbs take a direct object, the past participle agrees with the subject.
            When reciprocal verbs take an indirect object in French, the past participle does not agree.
            
        Verbs conjugated with avoir or être
            Six verbs among those conjugated with être in the passé composé (sortir, rentrer, monter,
            descendre, passer, retourner) are conjugated with avoir and follow the avoir agreement when a
            direct object follows the verb. In these cases, the meaning of the verb has changed.
                Ils sont montés en haut de la Tour Eiffel. They went to the top of the Eiffel Tower.
                Ils ont monté les malles au grenier. They took the trunks up to the attic.
                
                Elle est descendue au rez-de-chaussée. She went down to the ground fl oor.
                Elle a descendu les poubelles. She took down the garbage cans.
                Elle est sortie avec des amis. She went out with some friends.
                Elle a sorti la voiture du garage. She took the car out of the garage.
                Elle est rentrée de vacances hier. She came back from vacation yesterday.
                Elle a rentré les géraniums dans le salon. She brought the geraniums into the living room.
                Je suis passée devant les Galeries I passed by the Galeries Lafayette.
                Lafayette.
                J’ai passé trois semaines à Tokyo. I spent three weeks in Tokyo.
                Je suis retournée à Venise pour la I went back to Venice for the third time.
                troisième fois.
                Elle a retourné l’omelette. She turned over the omelette.

Interrogative
    Inverse
    Est-ce que
    upward inntonation
            
            
Negative Form:
    ne...pas
    Il n’attend personne. He is not waiting for anybody.
    Tu ne voyages jamais en hiver. You never travel during the winter.
    Il n’a plus de patience. He has no patience left .
    Elle ne répond rien. She does not answer anything.(She answers nothing.)
    Ce n’est guère raisonnable. It’s hardly reasonable
            
    ni-ni

    The negation ni… ni… precedes each noun that it negates. In addition, the negative particle ne
    (n’) comes directly before the verb. When the definite article le, la, l’, les is used before the noun,
    the definite article remains when the verb is negative.
    
        Il aime le café et le chocolat. He likes coff ee and chocolate.
        Il n’aime ni le café ni le chocolat. He likes neither coff ee nor chocolate.
        Elle aime le bleu et le jaune. She likes blue and yellow.
        Elle n’aime ni le bleu ni le jaune. She likes neither blue nor yellow.
        
    When the indefinite or partitive article is used before the noun in the affirmative sentence,
    the article disappears when the verb is made negative.
    
        Elle commande de l’eau et du vin. She orders water and wine.
        Elle ne commande ni eau ni vin. She orders neither water nor wine.
        Il vend des oranges et des mangues. He sells oranges and mangoes.
        Il ne vend ni oranges ni mangues. He sells neither oranges nor mangoes.
                
Special Verbs
    être
        suis,es,est,sommes,êtes,sont
    
    avoir
        ai,as,a,avons,avez,ont
    
    Savoir
    
        sais,sais,sait,savons,savez,savent
        
        Savoir means to know a fact, to know how to do something from memory or study.
        savoir is sometimes translated by can. 
        Before a dependent clause or before an infinitive, only savoir can be used.
            Je ne sais pas où il est. I don’t know where he is.
            Il sait qu’elle est occupée. He knows she is busy
            
    Connaître  
    
        connais,connais,connaît, connaissons,connaissez,connaissent
        
        Connaître means to know, to be acquainted with, to be familiar with. In a figurative way, it means to enjoy, to experience. It is always followed by a direct object; it is never followed by a dependent clause
        
            Elle connaît bien Paris. She knows Paris well.
            Connaissez-vous les Tavernier? Do you know the Taverniers?
            Son nouveau roman connaît un grand succès. His new novel is enjoying great success.
    
    Pouvoir
    
        peux,peux,peut,pouvons,pouvez,peuvent
        
        Pouvoir (can, may) expresses ability and capability.
        
        When asking permission with inversion in formal style, the first-person singular of pouvoir
        takes a different form.
            Puis-je vous aider? May I help you?
            Puis-je vous donner un conseil? May I give you a piece of advice?
            
        Another formal way of asking questions is to use the conditional form of pouvoir. 
            Pourriez-vous résoudre ce problème? Could you solve this problem?
            Pourriez-vous annuler notre vol? Could you cancel our flight?
            
    Vouloir
    
        veux,veux,veut,voulons,voulez,veulent
        
        The verb vouloir (to want) is used to express wishes and desires. 
        It is also used for a polite request in the conditional form.
        
            Elle veut une augmentation. She wants a raise.
            Nous voulons une table près de la cheminée. We want a table by the fi replace.
            Je voudrais vous parler. I would like to speak with you.
            
    Aller
        vais, vas,va,allons,allez,vont
        Used in Immedaite future tense
    
    Venir (to come) and its derivatives, 
        devenir (to become), prévenir (to warn, to inform),survenir (to occur)
        
        viens,viens,vient,venons,venez,viennent
        Used in Immedaite past
    
    Tenir (to hold)
        tiens,tiens,tient,tenons,tenez,tiennent
        
        Tenir has several diff erent meanings.
            Le directeur ne tient jamais ses promesses. The manager never keeps his promises.
            Il tient son fi ls par la main. He is holding his son’s hand.
            La caféine la tient éveillée. Caff eine keeps her awake.
            Ils tiennent un restaurant à Nice. Th ey run a restaurant in Nice.
            Toutes ces aff aires ne vont pas tenir dans ta valise. All these things won’t fit in your suitcase.
            Ils tiennent le rythme. Th ey are keeping up the pace.
            Elle tient compte de vos commentaires. She takes your comments into account.
            Tiens, tiens, c’est étrange... Well, well, this is strange . . .
            Tiens, prends ces trois livres. Here, take these three books.
            
        When used with the preposition à or de, tenir takes on another meaning.
            Elle tient à ses bijoux. She is attached to her jewels.
            Ils tiennent à leurs habitudes. Th ey are attached to their habits.
            Marc tient à vous voir. Marc insists on seeing you.
            De qui tient-elle? Whom does she take aft er?
            Elle tient de sa mère. She takes after her mother.
    
    Faire (to do, to make)
        fais,fais,fait,faisons,faites,font
        
            Qu’est-ce que vous faites ce soir? What are you doing tonight?
            Nous faisons un gâteau. We’re making a cake.
            Il ne sait pas quoi faire. He does not know what to do.
            
        Faire is also used in expressions relating to chores, activities, sports, etc.
            Elle fait les courses ici. She shops here.
            Tu ne fais jamais la cuisine? You never cook?
            Il fait le ménage le samedi. He does the housecleaning on Saturdays.
            Viens faire une promenade! Come take a walk!
            L’enfant fait la vaisselle. The child is doing the dishes.
            Je ne veux pas faire la queue. I don’t want to stand in line.
            Ça fait combien? How much does it cost?
            Tu fais du vélo? Do you ride a bike?
            Vous faites du sport? Do you play sports?
        
        The causative form:
            faire + verb 
        
            The causative form is, in most cases, used to express the idea of having something done by someone
            or of causing something to happen. It is formed with the verb faire followed by an infinitive.
            
            verb faire followed by an infinitive
            
                Elle écrit la lettre elle-même. She writes the letter herself.
                Elle fait écrire la lettre par sa secrétaire. She has the letter written by her secretary.
                Ils envoient le document. They send the document.
                Ils font envoyer le document. They have the document sent.
                Elle fait la robe. She is making the dress.
                Elle fait faire la robe. She is having the dress made.
    
    Devoir(to have to, must)
        dois, dois,doit,devons,devez,doivent
        
        ◆ Devoir as a debt:
            Combien est-ce qu’on vous doit? How much do we owe you?
            Elle me doit mille euros. She owes me a thousand euros.
            Je vous dois quelque chose? Do I owe you anything?
            Il doit sa vie à son chirurgien. He owes his life to his surgeon.
        ◆ Devoir as an obligation**: 
            Vous devez assister à la réunion You must attend the meeting
            demain matin. tomorrow morning.
            L’enfant doit obéir à ses parents. Th e child must obey his parents.
            Vous ne devez pas y aller. You must not go there.
        ◆ Devoir as a probability**: 
            L’avion doit atterrir à dix heures. The plane is supposed to land at ten o’clock.
            Son livre doit sortir la semaine prochaine.Her book is supposed to be published next week.
        
        **The voice intonation will often determine if devoir implies an obligation or a probability.
        
        ◆ Devoir as a warning and suggestion. When used in the conditional or the past conditional, devoir takes on the meaning of should or should have.

            Tu ne devrais pas lui prêter d’argent. money. You should not lend him any
            Elles devraient apprendre une langue étrangère. They should learn a foreign language.
            
    Verbs ending in -eindre and -aindre
        Verbs like peindre (to paint) include teindre (to dye), ceindre (to encircle), feindre (to feign),
        craindre (to fear), plaindre (to pity), and se plaindre (to complain)
        
        peindre(to paint)
        peins, peins,peint, peignons, peignez,peignent
        
    Pronominal verbs
        the reflexive, the reciprocal, the passive, and the subjective
        
        Reflexive verbs
            The action of a reflexive verb is, for the most part, refl ected back on the subject
            
            me,te,se,nous,vous,se
            
            In Question form:
                When inversion is used, the reflexive pronoun remains in front of the verb
                
        Reciprocal verbs
            The second type of pronominal verb is called reciprocal. It describes an action two or more people
            perform with or for each other. Since two or more people are involved, reciprocal verbs can only
            be used in the plural (with se, nous, vous).
            
                Ils s’aiment beaucoup. They love each other a lot.
                Nous nous parlons tous les jours. We talk to each other every day.
                
        Passive pronominals
            A third type of pronominal verb is called passive. With the passive pronominal verbs, the subject
            is not a person or an animal. The subject does not perform the action of the verb but rather is
            subjected to it. It is in the third-person singular, with se.
            
                Ça ne se dit pas. Th is is not said.
                Ça ne se fait pas. Th is is not done.
                Comment ça se traduit? How is it (that) translated?
                Ça se voit. It shows.
                Le vin rouge se boit chambré. Red wine is drunk at room temperature.
                
        Subjective pronominals
            The last type of pronominal verb is called subjective. Th ese verbs are neither refl exive nor reciprocal.
            For idiomatic or historical reasons, they just happen to use the pronominal forms. Try to
            learn their infi nitives with the pronoun se.
            
                Elle s’en va. (s’en aller) She is leaving.
                Il se doute de quelque chose. (se douter de) He suspects something.
                Ils s’entendent très bien. (s’entendre [avec]) They get along very well.
                
            Here’s a list of commonly used subjective verbs:
                s’apercevoir to realize je m’aperçois I realize
                s’écrouler to collapse je m’écroule I am collapsing
                s’emparer to seize je m’empare I am seizing
                s’évanouir to faint je m’évanouis I am fainting
                se moquer to make fun je me moque I am making fun
                se souvenir to remember je me souviens I remember
                s’en aller to leave je m’en vais I am leaving
                s’envoler to vanish je m’envole I am vanishing
                s’enfuir to run away je m’enfuis I am running away
                
        Pronominals in the imperative and the infinitive
        
            The pronominal verbs are often used in the imperative, to give commands (Hurry up! Get up!Let’s go!). 
            For the affirmative imperative, add the stressed
            pronoun toi, nous, or vous after the verb, connected with a hyphen.
            
                Réveille-toi! Wake up!
                Reposons-nous sur un banc. Let’s rest on a bench.
                Habillez-vous! Get dressed!
                
            For the negative imperative of pronominal verbs, use ne in front of the pronoun and pas after the verb. Note that in the negative the reflexive pronoun precedes the verb, as it would in a normal sentence.
            
                Ne te couche pas si tard! Do not go to bed so late!
                Ne nous servons pas de cette machine! Let’s not use this machine!
                Ne vous installez pas dans cette région! Do not settle in this region!
                
            When pronominal verbs are used in the infinitive, the reflexive pronoun is always in the
            same person and number as the subject, and it precedes the infinitive.
            
                Vous allez vous apercevoir de votre erreur. You are going to realize your mistake.
                Tu viens de te marier? Did you just get married?
                
            
            
Common Expressions
    Il y a (there is, there are)
    
        Il y a is an impersonal expression that means both there is and there are.
            Il y a un chat sur le canapé. There is a cat on the sofa.
            Il n’y a plus rien dans le frigo. There is nothing left in the fridge.
            
        Il y a is used in a variety of expressions.
            Qu’est-ce qu’il y a? What’s the matter?
            Il n’y a qu’à leur dire. Just tell them.
            Il y avait une fois... Once upon a time . . .
            Il y a cinquante kilomètres d’ici à Paris. It’s fi ft y kilometers from here to Paris.
            Il y en a qui feraient mieux de se taire. Some people would do better to keep quiet.
            
    Il s’agit de (it is a matter of, it’s about)
    
        Il s’agit de is a fixed expression that introduces the subject of a work (book, film, etc.) or of a situation.
            De quoi s’agit-il? What is it about?
            Dans ce fi lm, il s’agit d’un crime. This film is about a crime.
            Dans ce roman, il s’agit d’une princesse. This novel is about a princess.
            Il s’agit de ton avenir. Your future is at stake.
            Il ne s’agit pas de plaisanter. Th is is no time for jokes.
            Il s’agit de faire vite. We must act quickly.
            Il ne s’agit pas de dettes. It is not a question of debts.
            Il s’agit d’amour. It is a matter of love.
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
    